## Lighting

a Light object is created by attaching a Light component to a GameObject.

Lights can be added to your scene from the **GameObject > Light** menu. You will choose the light format that you want from the sub-menu that appears. Once a light has been added, you can manipulate it like any other GameObject. Additionally, you can add a Light Component to any selected GameObject by using **Component > Rendering > Light**.

Lighting in Unity works by approximating how light behaves in the real world.

- **Direct light**:
  It is light that is emitted, hits a surface once, and is then reflected directly into a sensor (for example, the eye’s retina or a camera).
  
- **Indirect light**:
  It is all other light that is ultimately reflected into a sensor, including light that hits surfaces several times, and sky light. 
  
> To achieve realistic lighting results, you need to simulate both direct and indirect light.

- **Real-time lighting**:
  It is when Unity calculates lighting at runtime.

- **Baked lighting**:
  It is when Unity performs lighting calculations in advance and saves the results as lighting data, which is then applied at runtime.
  
>  In Unity, your Project can use real-time lighting, baked lighting, or a mix of the two (called **mixed lighting**).
  
- **Global illumination**:
  Global illumination is **a group of techniques** that **model both direct and indirect lighting to provide realistic lighting results**. Unity has two global illumination systems, which combine direct and indirect lighting.
  - **Baked Global Illumination system**:
    Consists of **lightmappers**, **Light Probes**, and **Reflection Probes**. \
    **There are three options for baking**: 
    - The **Progressive Lightmapper (CPU or GPU)**, and
    - **Enlighten Baked Global Illumination**.
  - **Real-time Global Illumination system**: 
    It is **Enlighten Realtime Global Illumination**. \
    https://www.siliconstudio.co.jp/middleware/enlighten/en/
    
### Lighting window
The Lighting window (menu: **Window > Rendering > Lighting**) is the main control point for Unity’s lighting features.

You can use the Lighting window to **adjust settings related to the lighting** in your Scene, and to **optimise your precomputed lighting data for quality, bake time, and storage space**.

> You can perform many of the functions available in the **Lighting window** in scripts, using the **`LightingSettings`** and **`Lightmapping`** APIs.

#### Scene tab
The Scene tab displays information about the **Lighting Settings Asset** that is assigned to the active Scene. If no Lighting Settings Asset is assigned to the active Scene, it displays information about the **default LightingSettings object**.

The Scene tab is divided into several sections:

- Lighting Settings Asset controls
- Lighting settings - Realtime Lighting, Mixed Lighting and Lightmapping settings
- Workflow Settings

#### Environment tab
The Environment tab contains settings related to **environmental lighting effects** for the current Scene. The contents depend on the render pipeline that your Project uses.

The Environment tab is divided into two sections:

- **Environment**: \
  The Environment section contains lighting-related settings and controls that apply to the environmental lighting in the current scene, such as the Skybox, diffuse lighting and reflections.
- **Other settings**: \
  The Other Settings section contains settings for **fog, Halos, Flares, and Cookies**.

#### Realtime Lightmaps tab
The **Realtime Lightmaps tab** shows a list of all **lightmaps** generated by the **`Enlighten Realtime Global Illumination system`** in the current Scene. If **`Enlighten Realtime Global Illumination`** is not enabled in your Project, this tab will be empty.

#### Baked Lightmaps tab
This tab shows **a list of all lightmaps generated by lightmapper** for the current Scene, **along with the Lighting Data Asset**. If **`Baked Global Illumination`** is not enabled in your Project, this tab will be empty.



https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/lighting-window.html


### ref
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DlxuvvYZO4Q

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VnG2gOKV9dw
